Linux Commands:

1. clear: clears the terminal
2. pwd: Directory navigation
3. ls: Show content in particular folder
4. cd ..: move one step up or back.
5. cd folder name: move to specific folder
6. cd /: Move to root
7. ls -a: Show all files(hidden also)
8. ls -l: Show all files and also details of files (no. of links or directories inside this directory, the group that file belong, the date of the last notification, file/folder name, size of file and can be modified to display other size, the user that the file belongs to, everyone else privilege, group privilege, owner privilege. In privilege section of the owner there is a file drwxr is written, it means:                                        first letter is “-“ for file, d - directory, l- link, r- read, w- The file can be modified(write/delete/edit), x- execute.
9. mkdir directoryName: Make a new directory
10. rm -r directoryName (it is used when the directory is not empty. rm nameOfFile rmdir directoryName : delete
11. touch f.txt: make a file
12. code f.txt: Open file with an editor(vscode)
13. cat f.txt: see content of a text file in the terminal
14. less f.txt: This helps when you need to look inside a small file.to see larger file use. quit pressing ‘q’
15. mv f.txt newName: Renaming a file.
16. cp newName.txt copied.txt: Copy a file
17. which fileName/foldername: locating a file/folder it outputs the path
18. history: See what command you used upto 500
19. sudo apt-get update: update Ubantu sudo means super user do
20. ifconfig: See network information
21. Ping google.com: ping a website
22. uname -a: see own os information
23. top: See system usage data
24. df: See disk space
25. sudo apt-get install Name: Install software
26. sudo apt-get remove Name: Remove/Uninstall
27. sudo reboot: Restart Computer
28. sudo shutdown -h now sudo poweroff: Shutdown Computer : (try anyone)
29. ls: Shows files/ directories in your current directory
30. ls -R: Shows all the files not only in directories but also subdirectories ls -r: will give you an error These Linux basics commands are case- sensitive
31. ls -al: Gives detailed information of the files in a columnar format
